# Project Report: Building an AI Solution with Azure Model Catalog

### Task Definition: 

The objective of this project is to design a prototype LLM-based tool and implement it using Azure. The specific task that I have chosen is an AI-powered *DM* or *Dungeon Master* that facilitates roleplaying sessions. This tool would run and manage tabletop gaming sessions for users, and in the real-world it could be used by those who lack access to a group of other players, to test new RPG systems for development, or to assist in remote gaming sessions.

### Model Selection: 

The model that I have selected from the Azure AI Model Catalog for this prototype is a text generation model known as **Mixtral-8x7B**. This model fits the task as it is an GPT-style model suitable as the basis for an intelligent assistant, and performance-wise it is also lightweight and matches other LLMs such as Llama while being much faster. This makes it suitable for players to run the tool locally on their own systems and allows the AI-DM to generate responses to game actions and developments quickly. The model is provided through Azure by Mistral AI.

### Management Process and Solution Development: 

The implementation of this prototype began with model integration using Mixtral-8x7B from Azure's AI Model Catalog. Further development included fine-tuning the model on a corpus including RPG rulebook material, such as DND's Dungeon Master Guidebook, and fantasy novels to improve the model's ability to understand rules, fantasy tropes, generate descriptions, and adapt to different roleplaying game systems. This was followed by developing a basic prompt flow in Azure AI Studio and iteratively designing an initial prompt for the DM, with dynamic keywords that change based on the user-specified game system. The prototype was then tested by running simple sessions of the DND 5E game system and manually assessing its understanding of game rules and logic.

### Evaluation Results: 

Key quantitative and qualitative metrics that I defined for evaluating the effectiveness of the AI DM include response time, narrative coherence, rule adherence, and user engagement. System performance was measured using Azure's monitoring tools, while the quality of the output was assessed through human feedback.

### Future Improvements: 

Improvements to the prototype that I would foremost focus on would be integrating the application with external tools and APIs to allow for a more consistent and immersive. For example, the tool could connect to a wiki or other knowledge base to dynamically pull up statblocks, APIs to manage game logic and actions, and a text-to-speech system to communicate to players. Further fine-tuning and testing could also be performed to ensure the system's compatibility with niche game systems.